---  
layout: post
title: Python
draft: true
---

I'm again trying to learn Python — last go round, I was filtered by a reduction in free time and classes. I was using Harvard's Python course, and while it was excellent, I'm trying out the OpenEDG / Edube / Python Institute this time around. I disagree a bit with the order some of the information is presented in, but it's also filling in some holes present in the Harvard course, so I cannot complain much. The following are my notes on the language. 

### Variables
Containers that store data. Variables require names and values (content). Names are case-sensitive and the pythonic convention of naming is snake_case. Variables that are constants should be uppercased, e.g., `MAX_ITERATIONS = 1000`. Reserved keywords cannot be used as variable names, as their meaning is predefined and must not be changed.

If you assign a value to a nonexistent variable, that action creates the variable. Assignment is done with the assignment operator, `=`.

```
var = 1  
print(var)
```

### Functions
#### Built-ins
`print` and others are built in to Python and do not need need to be imported. The process of using a function is **invocation** (also a **function call**).

There are 69 built-in functions in Python 3.8. 
##### `print`
Parameters include `sep` and `end`.

#### Misc. notes on functions
**Parameters** are the variables listed in the function definition. For the `print` function, these include `object(s)`, `sep`, `end`, `file`, and `flush`.

**Arguments** are the values passed to the function when it is called. These values are assigned to the parameters.
``
```
print("hello", sep="\n")
```

`"hello"` is an **argument** because it is the value being passed to the `print` function.

`sep="\n"` is also an **argument**, but it is a keyword argument. Here, `sep` is the parameter, and `"\n"` is the value being assigned to that parameter.

### Data types
#### Strings
Strings are *delimited*, or identified, with quotations marks, either single or double. It's important to choose one and stick with it and avoid mixing and matching.

The backslash (`\`) is the escape character. For example, `\n` inserts a newline.

#### Integers
Also called *ints*. May be negative or positive: -n ... 0 ... n.

Use `e` or `E` for scientific notation. E.g., `3e8` and `3E8` are the same and both equal to 3×10^8.

#### Floating Points
Also called *floats*. Technically, numbers with non-zero decimal fractions.

#### Booleans
`True` or `False`, `1` or `0`. Binary states representing truthfulness. 

### Notes to be Sorted
#### Misc / Literals
Literals are the values variable "point to." For example, in `c = 123`, c is the variable and 123 is the literal. `None` is a literal type. It's a `NoneType` object, which represents the *absence* of a value, and in this way is similar to `null`.

#### Misc / Operators and expressions
An **operator** is a symbol of the programming language, which is able to operate on the values. Examples of operators include `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `//`, `%`, `**`, etc. (from edube)

Data and operators when connected together form **expressions**. The simplest expression is a literal itself. (from edube)

A `//` (double slash) sign is an **integer divisional** operator. It differs from the standard `/` operator in two details: (edube)

- its result lacks the fractional part - it's absent (for integers), or is always equal to zero (for floats); this means that **the results are always rounded**.
- it conforms to the _integer vs. float rule_. (edube)

This is also called **floor division** and the result of integer division is always rounded to the nearest integer value that is less than the real (not rounded) result. (edube)

This is very important: **rounding always goes to the lesser integer**. (edube)

###### Modulo
The result of the module (`%`) operator is a **remainder left after the integer division** — *the value left over after dividing one value by another to produce an integer quotient*.

###### Misc. notes
- `14 // 4` gives `3` → this is the integer **quotient**;
- `3 * 4` gives `12` → as a result of **quotient and divisor multiplication**;
- `14 - 12` gives `2` → this is the **remainder**.
#### Misc / Operations
The result produced by the division operator is always a float. For example, `2/1` will results in `2.0`.