---
title: Things My Father Told Me
description: Plus a few things I found out along the way.
date: 2025-08-27
draft: false
---
My son is coming up on 6 months, so I decided to write down all of the wisdom my dad passed along to me, as well as the things I discovered on my own so as not to forget. A bit like Proverbs, but more deep-fried bon mots and working-class prudence. Updated on an ongoing basis.

## Companies are not your friend / companies do not care about you.
Do not make this mistake. Companies exist to make a profit, and that is all. A corollary to this is, "never carry water for a company unless you own that company."
Pro-tip: You cannot be betrayed by a company if you do not put sufficient trust in them to be betrayed. See [Bioware Shills Get HARSH Reality Check As Failure Of Dragon Age: The Veilguard Leaves Them Betrayed](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=972sWLLcqoU).

## Constantly adjust your expectations.
This goes with the above, but can be applied elsewhere. "Fool me once," and that.

## Always read the EULA and the TOS.
It's surprising how many people blindly, thoughtlessly sign EULAs and ignore TOS without knowing what is in them. Be especially wary of the "L" in EULA, and understand what that means. Licensing ≠ ownership.

## Your personality is what you do and how you act.
That is to say: attributes are not a personality. Many people go online and download the latest trendy personality. Avoid these people when you can.

## If you claim to have agency, you must own your failures and mistakes.
If you are truly in control of your own life and decisions, then you can't have it both ways. Only you care about your failures as much as you think others do.

## Knowledge and wisdom are like fine jewels. Only a fool would not grasp at them.
Devour all information you can get your hands on. As for reading, consume mostly non-fiction, but do not neglect the Western canon of non-fiction: You must cultivate a deep reference pool.

## Math and reading are of paramount importance.
Always read at a grade level beyond your actual school grade, and when you graduate, be sure to continue reading at a high level. The same goes for math: Never be satisfied in what you know (especially in finance). If you cannot master reading and math, the world will be a very difficult place for you.

## Never do what they do.
This is a heuristic - more descriptive than prescriptive. If the world is doing something, do not do that thing. We are set apart, so we must act like it.

## In this life, you will need to strive. You will need to know how to compete.
I had to learn how to compete late in life, and I will always be behind those who started at a younger age. Even if you do not relish competition, you must know how to compete with others.

## Exercise and eat well / understand nutrition.
This is one of many attending pieces of advice for "Never do what they do." You needn't become a bodybuilder, but you need to be strong and have endurance. Avoid processed and fast food. Well-sourced raw vege, fresh fruit and well-sourced meat will serve you well. Nutrition is not complicated; be wary of those who try to complicate it.

## Do not complain.
Not everything is pleasant. That's how it goes. Man up.

## If something is free, you are the product — and even if you pay for something, you are probably still the product.
cf. Read the TOS and EULA.

## Do not fraternize with low-fidelity individuals.
Another way of saying this is, "be the dumbest person in your friend group." Iron sharpens iron, so be around those who are going places.
