---
title: Title of the post
description:
date: 2025-09-13
draft: true
toc: false
---
There have been a handful of tracks that have had an outsized impact on my life. This is a look at a few of them.

# WHY? — Fatalist Palmistry
It's a bit unfair to "The Vowels, Pt. 2" that I list this track as the one that influced the majority of my 20s and well into my 30s. This is probably the second WHY? track I heard, and the one that cemented the band as my favorite of all time. Yoni Wolf's songwriting is non-pareil. Every album is replete with infinitely excellent one-liners, many of which have become part of the background radiation of my idle thinking. 

I got to see WHY? play SXSW (maybe it was ACL?) in 2010 or so and the rain started to fall the instant the they started playing "Gemini (Birthday Song)." I hope to ever forget how wonderful life was at that moment.

>I sleep on my back, 'cause it's good for the spine

>Annnnnd coffin rehearsal.

# Bruce Springsteen — Atlantic City
To be fair, I first heard a cover of this by Kyle Morton of Typhoon and Danielle Sullivan of Wild Ones (2010), and then Bruce Springsteen's (original) version (1982), and then finally the cover from The Band's 1993 album *Jericho*. Every one of them is good in its own way, which is rarely the case for different versions of a song. Non-Springsteen versions lose the Midwestern Gotchic appeal but make up for it with different vocal takes, and The Band's version has an outstanding mandolin portion (apparently played by the guy who wrote "One of Us", recorded by Joan Osborne).

> Everything dies, baby, that's a fact.

# Nas — Nas is Like
Well before I got into Gang Starr, I encountered Primo's work on this track from Nas' 1999 album *I Am...* The sample from John Rydgren and Bob R. Way's 1966 song "What Child Is This?" is summertime perfection.
